---
title: GitHub Rebase 9
layout: post
---

The middle of December has brought us "a few feet of snow":http://www.cnn.com/2008/US/weather/12/21/snowyweather/index.html and the return of graphs! I'm looking for new ways to show off the ridiculous amount of data available on the site (just over 67,000 events in total last week), so if you have any ideas feel free to let me know. 

h3. Stats Breakdown

p=. !http://chart.apis.google.com/chart?chtt=GitHub+Rebase+%E2%80%94+Total+Events+%E2%80%94+12-14-2008+to+12-20-2008&chxs=0,eb3232,10,1&chf=bg,s,f0f0f0&chxt=x&chl=commit:+29554|push:+19368|watch_started:+5190|create:+5086|gist:+3206|follow:+1777|fork:+1138|wiki:+500|member_add:+464|comment:+364|fork_apply:+264|delete:+243|member_remove:+9|guide:+7&cht=p3&chs=530x220&chco=3C8D0D&chd=s:9nKKGDCBAAAAAA!
!http://chart.apis.google.com/chart?chtt=GitHub+Rebase+%E2%80%94+Events+Breakdown+%E2%80%94+12-14-2008+to+12-20-2008&chxs=0,4183c4,9,1|1,4183c4,9,1&chf=bg,s,f0f0f0&chm=B,bbccd9,0,0,0&chxt=x,y&chxl=0:|12-14|12-15|12-16|12-17|12-18|12-19|12-20&cht=lc&chs=530x375&chdl=comment|create|delete|follow|fork|fork_apply|gist|member_add|push|watch_started|wiki&chd=s:AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAEBAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA,AAAABABAABACABBABABABAAAAAAAAABBCBBABBBCCHEECCCBBCCDBEDCFDJEFHFFDCHIDDGECDEDDDGECFFHFFEEFDEDCDCDBCDCDDECDCCCJLIGHGIGHDEFEGEEDEHEFFHHHFFEDCGEECDBBBCDCCCECCDEEFEDEEDCECB,AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABABAAAACAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA,AAABABBABAABACABABBAAABAAAABCACEBABBBBAACBBAAAABBAAABCACDCCBCBBBAABABAABABBBCCBAACABBCABCAABACBBBABBBAABADCACCCDAAFBAAABAAABABACAABCBAAACAAAACAABABABCBABACAABAAAABBAA,AAAAAAABAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAABABABBABABBAAAAAAAAAABAAAAABBABBBBBABAAAAAAAABAABBAABBBABABCBBAAAAAAAAAAABAABBBBBBABBAABAAAAAAAABBBABAAABBAAAAABAAAAAAAABAAABAAAAAAAAAAA,AAABAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA,AAAAAABAAABBAABAAAAAAABAAAAABBAAABBBCBBBBAACBAABAAABBABCHEAABBAAAABAAAAAAABACAAABBBABBAAABBAAAAAABBBBBAACBBBBABBBAAAAAAAAAAAABABCBAAAAAAABBAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABS3Ys9XB,AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAABBDAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADBAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACABABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACA,GJHLKKLLMPQRQNROOLRPLLJAMLKIKIMQTRQXYUUUQNPOKNJMOJIIIMONRSRQRVUQSOMKLOMNLILOQKNPQTMSWWSSRMOMOMLLJMJHKOMQPTOPRUWSNPQOOQJNJILKMNRTQSOQQPNQOILJLKKKHFGHGFHJLKLNROQNNNNNMMPM,BBCCDCDFDDDDECEFDCCCCCCADDFDDEEFIDGFFHEEDCCEDDDDDEDDDEDDEDDEDDFDCGDEDCCCDFDEKEEGFDDEGFFFDCCDDCBDDDCCCFGEEHEDGFGEDEFCCDCBCCDDCCEEEFCEDFDDCDCDCCBCBCCABBCGCCDDDDDDCCCBBDDB,AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAABAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAABAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABAAAAAAAAAAAAA&chxr=1,0,2039&chco=e8d5e9,993399,ffff99,ff9900,ff00ff,3cb371,9e8c12,0000ff,00ff00,ff0000,000000!

h3. Featured Project<notextile>*</notextile>

*"passenger":http://github.com/FooBarWidget/passenger* is quickly becoming "the new standard":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2008/12/16/hosting-ruby-on-rails-with-passenger for easy and robust Rails deployment. Also known as "mod_rails":http://www.modrails.com/, this is an Apache module that makes the process of getting your application published and out there so good "it's almost boring":http://www.modrails.com/testimonials.html. Installation and configuration are "dead simple":http://www.modrails.com/install.html, and it's being constantly improved and benchmarked against competing deployment systems. If you need more convincing to try it out, "RubyInside has a fantastic collection":http://www.rubyinside.com/28_mod_rails_and_passenger_resources-899.html of blog posts, discussions, and tutorials to help you get started. 

h3. Notably New Projects

*"grancher":http://github.com/judofyr/grancher* is a helpful little tool that can copy files from one git branch to another. This is awesome for those who have their project's documentation or other files living in their repositories already but want to move them easily to the gh-pages branch. Check out "judofyr's blog post":http://judofyr.net/posts/copy-folders-to-a-branch.html on how this can be done or "Grancher's docs":http://judofyr.github.com/grancher/ for everything that it can do.

*"gaebar":http://github.com/aral/gaebar* stands for "Google App Engine":http://code.google.com/appengine/ Backup and Restore. It's a Django module that helps with pulling down, backing up, and restoring data on your GAE. What's really neat is that it stores your data as Python code, and then simply runs that code to bring your data back. If your apps are running off this platform gaebar might just be for you (or if you're worried about Google ever going down).

*"mytime":http://github.com/marnix/mytime* is a GTD time tracking tool that is used through the system tray. It's very alpha right now, but I really like the goals of the project: timed todo lists, tagging for tasks, and plenty of reports to track your time. If you're looking to get into Java, returning to it, or perhaps want to hone your Swing skills a little, this is a small little project that would be fun to hack on.

h3. Hardcore Forker of the Week

*John Resig ("jeresig":http://github.com/jeresig)* is the definition of a JavaScript guru. He's most widely known for creating "jQuery":http://jquery.com/ (and his "blog":http://ejohn.org), but he's also been hacking on plenty of projects here on GitHub. From "processing-js":http://github.com/jeresig/processing-js, a port of the "Processing language":http://www.processing.org/, to "fireunit":http://github.com/jeresig/fireunit, a "Firebug":http://getfirebug.com extension for JS unit testing, this guy is just unstoppable. Recently he's been working on "sizzle":http://github.com/jeresig/sizzle, a new CSS selector engine that may be used across many different JS libraries. Some of the coolest stuff coming out in JavaScript is from him, so he's definitely worth following (and "rocking out":http://flickr.com/photos/jordansissel/2397610792/ with).

<small>*I had marked "Shoes":http://github.com/why/shoes as the featured project when this post first came out, but it had already been featured a while back. Still check it out though, it's fantastic.</small>

